GENERAL REGULATIONS

303.3 Plastic pipe, fittings and components. Where permitted by this code, plastic pipe, fittings and components
shall be third-party certified as conforming to NSF 14.

303.4 Third-party certification. All plumbing products and materials shall be listed by a third-party certification
agency as complying with the referenced standards. Products and materials shall be identified in accordance with
Section 303.1.
SECTION PC 304
RODENTPROOFING

304.1 General. Plumbing systems shall be designed and installed in accordance with Sections 304.2 and 304.4 to
prevent rodents from entering structures.

304.2 Strainer plates. All strainer plates on drain inlets shall be designed and installed so that all openings are not
greater than '/> inch (12.7 mm) in least dimension.

304.3 Reserved.

304.4 Openings for pipes. In or on structures where openings have been made in walls, floors or ceilings for the
passage of pipes, the annular space between the pipe and the sides of the opening shall be sealed with caulking mate-
rials or closed with gasketing systems compatible with the piping materials and locations.
SECTION PC 305
PROTECTION OF PIPES AND PLUMBING SYSTEM COMPONENTS

305.1 Corrosion. Pipes passing through or encased in concrete or cinder walls and floors or other corrosive material
shall be protected against external corrosion by a protective sheathing or wrapping or other means that will withstand
any reaction from the lime and acid of concrete, cinder or other corrosive material. Sheathing or wrapping shall allow
for movement including expansion and contraction of piping to prevent any rubbing action. Thickness of sheathing
‘or wrapping material shall be not less than 0.025 inch (0.64 mm).

305.2 Stress and strain. Piping in a plumbing system shall be installed so as to prevent strains and stresses that exceed
the structural strength of the pipe. Where necessary, provisions shall be made to protect piping from damage resulting
from expansion, contraction and structural settlement.

305.3 Pipes through or under footings or foundation walls. Any pipe that passes under a footing or through a
foundation wall shall be provided with a relieving arch, or a pipe sleeve pipe shall be built into the foundation wall.
The sleeve shall be two pipe sizes greater than the pipe passing through the wall.

305.4 Freezing. Water, soil and waste pipes shall not be installed outside of a building, in attics or crawl spaces,
concealed in outside walls, or in any other place subjected to freezing temperatures unless adequate provision is made
to protect such pipes from freezing by insulation or heat or both. Exterior water supply system piping shall be installed
not less than 48 inches (1219 mm) below grade.

305.4.1 Building sewer and building drain depth. Building drains that connect to private sewage disposal sys-
tems shall be a minimum of 36 inches (914 mm) below finished grade at the point of septic tank connection.
Building sewers and drains shall be a minimum of 36 inches (914 mm) below grade.

305.5 Waterproofing of openings. Joints at the roof and around vent pipes, shall be made water tight by the use of
lead, copper, galvanized steel, aluminum, plastic or other approved flashings or flashing material. Exterior wall
openings shall be made water tight.

305.6 Protection against physical damage. In concealed locations where piping, other than cast-iron or galvanized
steel, is installed through holes or notches in studs, joists, rafters or similar members less than 1!/2 inches (38 mm)
from the nearest edge of the member, the pipe shall be protected by steel shield plates. Such shield plates shall have a
thickness of not less than 0.0575 inch (1.463 mm) (No. 16 gage). Such plates shall cover the area of the pipe where
the member is notched or bored, and shall extend not less than 2 inches (51 mm) above sole plates and below top
plates.

305.7 Protection of components of plumbing system. Components of a plumbing system installed along alleyways,
driveways, parking garages or other locations exposed to damage shall be recessed into the wall or otherwise protected
in an approved manner.