tit Chapter 3 was amended by Local Law 77 of 2023. This law has an effective date of June 10, 2023.

CHAPTER 3
GENERAL REGULATIONS
SECTION PC 301
GENERAL

301.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the general regulations regarding the installation of plumbing
not specific to other chapters.

301.2 System installation. Plumbing shall be installed with due regard to preservation of the strength of structural
members and prevention of damage to walls and other surfaces through fixture usage.

tt} 301.3 Connections to drainage system. Plumbing fixtures, drains, appurtenances and appliances used to receive
or discharge liquid waste or sewage shall be directly connected to the sanitary drainage system of the building or
premises, in accordance with the requirements of this code. This section shall not be construed to prevent indirect
waste systems required by Chapter 8.

Exception: Fixtures discharging wastewater shall not be required to discharge to the sanitary drainage system
where such fixtures discharge to a water recycling system in accordance with Chapter 13.

301.4 Connections to water supply. Every building intended for human habitation, occupancy or use shall be di-
rectly or indirectly connected to the water supply system in accordance with the provisions of this code. Every
plumbing fixture, device or appliance requiring or using water for its proper operation shall be directly or indirectly
connected to the water supply system in accordance with the provisions of this code.

301.5 Pipe, tube and fitting sizes. Unless otherwise indicated, the pipe, tube and fitting sizes specified in this code
are expressed in nominal or standard sizes as designated in the referenced material standards.

301.6 Prohibited locations. Plumbing systems shall not be located in an elevator shaft and plumbing systems not
related to elevator machinery shall not be located in elevator equipment rooms.

Exception: Floor drains, sumps and sump pumps shall be permitted at the base of the shaft, provided that they are
indirectly connected to the plumbing system and comply with Section 1003.4.

301.7 Conflicts. In instances where conflicts occur between this code and the manufacturer’s instructions, the more
restrictive provisions shall apply.

SECTION PC 302

EXCLUSION OF MATERIALS DETRIMENTAL TO THE SEWER SYSTEM
302.1 Detrimental or dangerous materials. Ashes, cinders or rags; flammable, poisonous or explosive liquids or
gases; oil, grease or any other insoluble material capable of obstructing, damaging or overloading the building drainage
or sewer system, or capable of interfering with the normal operation of the sewage treatment processes; or any other
substance or material prohibited from being discharged into the public sewers in accordance with the rules of the
Department of Environmental Protection, shall not be deposited, by any means, into such systems.

302.2 Industrial wastes. Waste products from manufacturing or industrial operations shall not be introduced into the
public sewer except in accordance with the rules of the Department of Environmental Protection.
SECTION PC 303
MATERIALS
303.1 Identification. Each length of pipe and each pipe fitting, trap, fixture, material and device utilized in a plumbing

system shall bear the identification of the manufacturer and any markings required by the applicable referenced stand-
ards.

303.2 Installation of materials. All materials used shall be installed in strict accordance with the standards under
which the materials are accepted and approved. In the absence of such installation procedures, the manufacturer's
instructions shall be followed. Where the requirements of referenced standards or installation instructions do not con-
form to minimum provisions of this code, the provisions of this code shall apply.
