ADMINISTRATION

5.1. The relative elevation of the lowest fixture referred to the city datum provided in Section 28-104.7.6 of the
Administrative Code and the approximate inside top of the public sewers;

5.2. The number, size, and location of all proposed sewer connections and relative location and size of all water
mains, leaders, and risers; and

5.3. A statement from the Department of Environmental Protection, giving the minimum water pressure in the
main serving the building.

6. Seismic protection and restraint details for piping and equipment as required by Chapter 16 of the New York City
Building Code.

7. Details showing structural supports for water tanks where required.
8. In flood hazard areas, construction documents shall comply with Appendix G of the New York City Building
Code.

107.6 Discharge of sewage and discharge and/or management of stormwater runoff. Applications for construc-
tion document approval shall comply with Sections 107.6.1, 107.6.2 and 107.6.3.

107.6.1 Sewage. Applications for construction document approval shall include submittal documents relating to
the availability and feasibility of a public sanitary or public combined sewer and/or other approved discharge for
sewage in accordance with Sections 107.6.1.1 and 107.6.1.2 for the following types of applications:

1. New buildings that include any fixtures that produce sewage;
2. Alterations that require an increase in size to an existing sanitary or combined sewer connection; and/or
3. Alterations requiring a new connection to a sanitary or combined sewer.

107.6.1.1 Connection feasible and available. Where a public sanitary or combined sewer availability is certi-
fied by the Department of Environmental Protection or certified by an applicant in accordance with rules of such
department and connection thereto feasible, the applicant shall submit:

1. Department of Environmental Protection certification of availability and feasibility. A sewer certi-
fication issued by the Department of Environmental Protection that a public sanitary or combined sewer
is available and connection thereto is feasible. Applications for such certification shall be made to the
Department of Environmental Protection on forms specified by such department (Department of Environ-
mental Protection “house/site connection proposal application” or other form as specified in the rules of
such department) and shall be reviewed and approved by such department in accordance with the rules of
such department. Such certification may be conditioned by such department on part or all of the sewage
to be disposed of with an on-site disposal system or with the use of an alternative disposal system; or

. Applicant certification of availability and feasibility. A certification submitted by the applicant to the
Department of Environmental Protection in accordance with the rules of such department that a public
sanitary or combined sewer is available and connection thereto is feasible, in such cases where the avail-
ability and feasibility of connection to a public sanitary or combined sewer are allowed to be certified by
the applicant pursuant to such rules. Such certification shall be on forms specified by such department
(Department of Environmental Protection “house/site connection proposal application” or other form as
specified in the rules of such department).

x

107.6.1.2 Connection not feasible or not available. Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available,
or where connection thereto is not feasible, the applicant shall submit:

1. Department of Environmental Protection or applicant certification of unavailability or non-feasi-
bility. (i) A certification issued by the Department of Environmental Protection that a public sanitary or
combined sewer is not available or that connection to an available sewer is not feasible. Such certification
shall be on forms specified by such department (Department of Environmental Protection “house/site con-
nection proposal application” or other form as specified in the rules of such department) or (ii) A certifi-
cation submitted by the applicant to the Department of Environmental Protection that a public sanitary or
combined sewer is not available or that connection thereto is not feasible, in such cases where the availa-
bility and feasibility of connection to a public sanitary or combined sewer are allowed to be certified by
the applicant pursuant to the rules of such department. Such certification shall be on forms specified by
