ADMINISTRATION

104.2 Remedies for nonfunctioning storm water disposal systems. If the commissioner determines that a system
of storm water disposal which has been previously approved under the provisions of this code or of previous codes
is no longer providing adequate drainage of storm water from a lot or development, the commissioner shall order
repair of such system as required by Section 28-301.1 of the Administrative Code; or if, in the judgment of the
commissioner, repair of such system is not sufficient to ensure adequate drainage of storm water from such lot or
development, the commissioner shall order that one of the methods of storm water disposal set forth in Chapter 11
shall be used to provide such drainage. The commissioner may apply to the Board of Standards and Appeals for
modification of the Certificate of Occupancy of any building constructed on such lot or development to require the
use of such method.

SECTION PC 105
APPROVALS

105.1 Approvals. Refer to Chapter 1 of Title 28 of the Administrative Code.

SECTION PC 106
PERMITS

106.1 General. Permits shall comply with this section, with Article 105 of Chapter 1 of Title 28 of the Administra-
tive Code, and with requirements found elsewhere in this code.

106.2 Required. Any owner or authorized agent who intends to construct, add to, alter, repair, move, demolish, or
change the occupancy of a building or structure, or to erect, install, add to, alter, repair, remove, convert or replace
any gas, mechanical or plumbing system, the installation of which is regulated by this code, or to cause any such
work to be done, shall first make application for construction document approval in accordance with Chapter 1 of
Title 28 of the Administrative Code and this chapter and obtain the required permit.

106.3 Work exempt from permit. Exemptions from permit requirements of this code as authorized in Chapter 1 of
Title 28 of the Administrative Code and the rules of the department shall not be deemed to grant authorization for
any work to be done in any manner in violation of the provisions of this code or any other laws or rules.

106.4 Validity of permit. The issuance or granting of a permit shall not be construed to be a permit for, or an
approval of, any violation of any of the provisions of this code or of any other law. Permits presuming to give
authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this code or other law shall not be valid. The issuance of a permit
based on construction documents and other data shall not prevent the commissioner from requiring the correction
of errors in the construction documents and other data. The commissioner is also authorized to prevent occupancy
or use of a structure where in violation of this code or of any other law.

106.5 Mandatory sewer and catch basin work required by Section 24-526 of the Administrative Code. An appli-
cant for a permit who is required pursuant to Section 24-526 of the Administrative Code to construct or repair
defects in sewers or catch basins that lie outside the property shall submit certification from the Department of
Environmental Protection in accordance with Section 105.9 of the New York City Building Code.

106.6 Other permits. In addition to any permits required by the provisions of this code, the following permits shall
also be required:

1. Permits for all water supplies and backflow devices for all buildings shall be obtained from the Department of
Environmental Protection, and the installation of the water service system from the street main up to and includ-
ing the meter outlet control valve shall be subject to inspection and approval by such department. All backflow
devices shall be acceptable to the New York State Department of Health.

Permits for the installation of the building sewer shall be obtained from the Department of Environmental Pro-
tection.

bd

we

. Permits for sidewalk and street openings shall be obtained from the Department of Transportation.

al

Where groundwater discharge permits are required by the rules of the Department of Environmental Protection
for the discharge of groundwater, such permits shall be obtained from the Department of Environmental Protec-
tion in accordance with such rules.
