ADMINISTRATION

1. Progress inspections:

1.1. Underground inspection and/or testing of installed piping, valves, fittings, support structures, anti-corrosion
equipment and associated underground components shall be made before backfill is put in place. When
excavated soil contains rocks, broken concrete, frozen chunks and other rubble that would damage or break
the piping or cause corrosive action, clean backfill shall be on the job site ready for use in backfilling.

1.2. Rough-in inspection and/or testing shall be made after the roof, framing, fireblocking, firestopping,
drafistopping and bracing is in place and all sanitary, storm and water distribution piping is roughed-in, and
prior to the installation of wall or ceiling membranes.

Exception: When new water, waste and vent piping is installed or replaced and all of the piping is to be
permanently exposed there shall be no requirement for a rough-in inspection.

1.3. Inspections required by the New York City Energy Conservation Code shall be made in accordance with
the rules of the department, as applicable.

x

Special inspections. Special inspections shall be performed in accordance with this code and Chapter 17 of the
New York City Building Code, and, where applicable, Section 107.3.

y

Final inspection shall be made after the building is complete, all plumbing fixtures are in place and properly
connected, and the structure is ready for occupancy. Refer to Article 116 of Chapter 1 of Title 28 of the Admin-
istrative Code for additional requirements.

108.2.1 Approved agencies. Refer to Articles 114 and 115 of Chapter 1 of Title 28 of the Administrative Code.

108.2.2 Inspection of prefabricated construction assemblies. Prior to the approval of a prefabricated construc-
tion assembly having concealed work and the issuance of a permit, the department shall require the submittal of
an evaluation report by an approved agency on each prefabricated construction assembly, indicating the complete
details of the installation, including a description of the system and its components, the basis upon which the
system is being evaluated, test results and similar information and other data as necessary for the commissioner
to determine conformance to this code.

108.2.2.1 Test and inspection records. Required test and inspection records shalll be available to the commis-
sioner at all times during the fabrication of the installation and the erection of the building; or such records as
the commissioner designates shall be filed.
108.2.3 Exposure of work. The work shall remain accessible and exposed for inspection purposes. Neither the
commissioner nor the city shall be liable for expense entailed in the removal or replacement of any material
required to allow inspection.

108.3 Special inspections of alternative engineered design systems. Special inspections of alternative engineered
design plumbing systems shall be conducted in accordance with Sections 108.3.1 and 108.3.2.

108.3.1 Periodic inspection. The special inspector shall periodically inspect and observe the work being per-
formed to determine that the installation is in accordance with the approved construction documents for the
alternative engineered design. All discrepancies shall be brought to the immediate attention of the plumbing
contractor for correction. Records shall be kept of all inspections.

108.3.2 Written report. The special inspector shall submit a final report in writing to the commissioner upon
completion of the installation, certifying that the alternative engineered design installation conforms to the ap-
proved construction documents.

108.4 Testing. Plumbing work and systems shall be tested as required in Section 312 and in accordance with Sec-
tions 108.4.1 through 108.4.3. Tests shall be made by the permit holder and witnessed by the department.

108.4.1 New, altered, extended or repaired systems. New plumbing systems and parts of existing systems that
have been altered, extended or repaired shall be tested as prescribed herein to disclose leaks and defects, except
that testing is not required in the following cases:

1. In any case that does not include addition to, replacement, alteration or relocation of any water supply, drain-
age or vent piping.

2. In any case where plumbing equipment is set up temporarily for exhibition purposes.
