ttt Chapter 1 was amended by Local Law 77 of 2023. This law has an effective date of June 10, 2023.

CHAPTER 1
ADMINISTRATION

SECTION PC 101
GENERAL

101.1 Title. This code shall be known and may be cited as the “New York City Plumbing Code,” “NYCPC” or “PC.”
All section numbers in this code shall be deemed to be preceded by the designation “PC.”

$ff101.2 Scope. The provisions of this code shall apply to the erection, installation, alteration, repair, relocation,
replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of plumbing systems. This code shall also regulate nonflammable
medical and nonmedical gas, nonmedical oxygen systems and sanitary and condensate vacuum collection systems.
The installation of fuel-gas distribution piping and equipment, fuel gas-fired water heaters, and water heater venting
systems shall be regulated by the New York City Fuel Gas Code.

101.3 Intent. The purpose of this code is to provide minimum standards to safeguard life or limb, health, property,
public welfare and the environment by regulating and controlling the design, construction, installation, quality of
materials, location, operation and maintenance or use of plumbing systems.

101.4 Severability. If a section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this code is, for any reason, held to be
unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this code.

SECTION PC 102
APPLICABILITY

102.1 General. Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a specific requirement, the specific
requirement shall govern. Where, in any specific case, different sections of this code specify different materials,
methods of construction or other requirements, the most restrictive shall govern.

102.2 Existing installations. Except as otherwise specifically provided, plumbing systems lawfully in existence on
July 1, 2008 or on the effective date of a subsequent amendment of this code shall be permitted to have their use
and maintenance continued if the use, maintenance or repair is in accordance with the original design and no hazard
to life, health or property is created by such plumbing system.

102.2.1 Existing buildings. Additions, alterations, renovations or repairs related to building or structural issues
shall be governed by Chapter | of Title 28 of the Administrative Code, the New York City Building Code and the
1968 Building Code, as applicable.

102.2.2 References to the New York City Building Code. For existing buildings, a reference to a section of the
New York City Building Code in this code shall also be deemed to refer to the equivalent provision of the 1968
Building Code, as applicable in accordance with Chapter 1 of Title 28 of the Administrative Code.

102.3 Maintenance. Installations, both existing and new, and parts thereof shall be maintained in proper operating
condition in accordance with the original design and in a safe and sanitary condition. Devices or safeguards that
are required by this code shall be maintained in compliance with the applicable provisions under which they were
installed.

102.3.1 Owner responsibility. The owner or the owner’s designated agent shall be responsible for maintenance
of plumbing systems. To determine compliance with this provision, the commissioner shall have the authority
to require any plumbing system to be inspected.

102.4 Additions, alterations or repairs. Additions, alterations, renovations or repairs to installations shall conform
to that required for new installations without requiring the existing installation to comply with all of the require-
ments of this code. Additions, alterations or repairs shall not cause an existing installation to become unsafe, haz-
ardous or overloaded.
