ADMINISTRATION

5. Permits for the installation of temporary connections at the street for water and sewer shall be obtained from the
Department of Environmental Protection.
106.7 Permits with respect to limited alteration applications. For permits with respect to limited alteration appli-
cations refer to Sections 28-101.5 and 28-104.6, Exception 1 of the Administrative Code.

SECTION PC 107
CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS

107.1 General. Construction documents shall comply with Article 104 of Chapter 1 of Title 28 of the Administrative
Code and other applicable provisions of this code and its referenced standards. Such construction documents shall
be coordinated with architectural, structural and means of egress plans.

107.2 Required documents. The applicant shall submit all of the documents specified in Sections 107.3 through
107.10 as appropriate to the nature and extent of the work proposed. Construction documents shall indicate the
plumbing work to be performed, so drawn as to conform to the architectural and structural aspects of the building
and to show in detail compliance with this code.

107.2.1 Composite plans. Composite plans showing compliance of architectural, structural, and mechanical
parts of a building may be submitted provided that a clear understanding of each part is not impaired.

107.3 Lot diagram. The lot diagram shall be provided where applicable to the work proposed, including but not
limited to, street connection locations and increases of impervious surfaces.

{1107.4 Building classification statement. Where applicable to the proposed work, the statement shall identify:

. The occupancy group or groups that apply to parts of the building in accordance with Section 302 of the New
York City Building Code;

. The occupancy group of the main use or dominant occupancy of the building:

. The construction type of the building in accordance with Section 602 of the New York City Building Code;
The structure category in accordance with Table 1604.5 of the New York City Building Code;

. The height of the building as defined in Section 202 of the New York City Building Code;

. The applicable measurements to the highest and lowest level of Fire Department access;

. Whether the building is inside or outside of the fire districts; and

SADA RYWN

Whether the building is inside or outside a flood hazard area as such term is defined in Chapter 2 of the New
York City Building Code.
$££107.5 Plumbing plans. Construction documents for plumbing work shall contain plans which include the fol-

lowing data and information. Such plans shall not be required in connection with applications for limited plumbing
alterations.

. Riser diagrams showing the story heights, all plumbing fixtures with diagrammatic arrangement of their con-
nections to soil, waste, and vent piping, all soil, waste, and vent stacks from the point of connection with the
building drain to their termination above the roof, all leader and storm water piping from the point of connection
with the building drain to the roof drain, and all risers.

2. Diagrammatic floor plans showing the location, layout, and spacing of all plumbing fixtures, the summation of
plumbing loads, the size, location, and material for all building sewers and drains, and the soil, waste, vent,
water, and gas distribution piping.

we

. Floor plans showing typical layouts; and stack details shown on one drawing, provided that such details are
clearly identified as to location and stack number.

-

. Plans clearly indicating all appurtenant equipment, including, but not limited to, pumps, ejectors, water tanks,
and piping.

5. In the case of plans for new plumbing systems, and alterations of existing plumbing systems, plans indicating:
