$1 314.23 Auxiliary and secondary drain systems. In addition to the requirements of Section 314.2.1, where
damage to any building components could occur as a result of overflow from the equipment primary condensate
removal system, one of the following auxiliary protection methods shall be provided for each cooling coil or fuel-
fired appliance that produces condensate:

1. An auxiliary drain pan with a separate drain shall be provided under the coils on which condensation will
occur. The auxiliary pan drain shall discharge to a conspicuous point of disposal to alert occupants in the
event of a stoppage of the primary drain. The pan shall have a depth of not less than 1'/) inches (38 mm),
shall be not less than 3 inches (76 mm) larger than the unit or the coil dimensions in width and length and
shall be constructed of corrosion-resistant material. Metallic pans shall have a thickness of not less than
0.0236-inch (0.6010 mm) (No. 24 gage) for galvanized sheet metal pans, 0.0179 inches (0.4546 mm) (No.
26 gage) for stainless steel pans, or 0.0320 inches (0.8128 mm) (No. 20 gage) for aluminum pans. Nonmet-
allic pans shall have a thickness of not less than 0.0625-inch (1.6 mm).

2. A separate overflow drain line shall be connected to the drain pan provided with the equipment. Such over-
flow drain shall discharge to a conspicuous point of disposal to alert occupants in the event of a stoppage of
the primary drain. The overflow drain line shall connect to the drain pan at a higher level than the primary
drain connection.

3. An auxiliary drain pan without a separate drain line shall be provided under the coils on which condensate
will occur. Such pan shall be equipped with a listed water-level detection device that will shut off the equip-
ment served prior to overflow of the pan, The auxiliary drain pan shall be constructed in accordance with
Item | of this section.

4. A listed water-level detection device shall be provided that will shut off the equipment served in the event
that the primary drain is blocked. The device shall be installed in the primary drain line, the overflow drain
line or in the equipment-supplied drain pan, located at a point higher than the primary drain line connection
and below the overflow rim of such pan.

Exceptions:

1. An auxiliary drain protection method shall not be required for fuel-fired appliances that automati-
cally shut down operation in the event of a stoppage in the condensate drainage system.

2. An auxiliary drain protection method shall not be required where a suitably sized and located floor
drain is provided.
314.2.3.1 Water-level monitoring devices. On down-flow units and all other coils that do not have a secondary
drain or provisions to install a secondary or auxiliary drain pan, a water-level monitoring device shall be installed
inside the primary drain pan. This device shall shut off the equipment served in the event that the primary drain
becomes restricted. Devices installed in the drain line shall not be permitted.

314.2.3.2 Appliance, equipment and insulation in pans. Where an appliance, equipment or insulation is sub-
ject to water damage when auxiliary drain pans fill, that portion of the appliance, equipment and insulation shall