GENERAL REGULATIONS

SECTION PC 312
TESTS AND INSPECTIONS

312.1 Required tests. The licensed master plumber shall make the applicable tests prescribed in Sections 312.2
through 312.11 to determine compliance with the provisions of this code. The licensed master plumber shall give two
days notice to the commissioner when the plumbing work is ready for tests. The equipment, material, power and labor
necessary for the inspection and test shall be furnished by the licensed master plumber and the licensed master
plumber shall be responsible for determining that the work will withstand the test pressure prescribed in the following
tests. All plumbing system piping shall be tested with either water or, for piping systems other than plastic, by air.
After the plumbing fixtures have been set and their traps filled with water, the entire drainage system shall be submitted
to final tests. The commissioner shall require the removal of any cleanouts if necessary to ascertain whether the pres-
sure has reached all parts of the system.

Exceptions:

1. The repair, replacement or alteration to existing water, waste, vent, storm water piping or, building drain in
an existing occupied building shall require only a visual inspection of waste, vent and storm water pipe
roughing and finish in addition to a pressure test of water piping at available building water pressure.

2, The addition of no more than five (5) plumbing fixtures or roof drains to an existing floor of an existing
occupied building shall require only a visual inspection of waste, vent and storm water pipe roughing and
finish in addition to a pressure test of water piping at available building water pressure.

312.1.1 Test gauges. Gauges used for testing shall be as follows:

1. Tests requiring a pressure of 10 pounds per square inch (psi) (69 kPa) or less shall utilize a testing gauge
having increments of 0.10 psi (0.69 kPa) or less.

2. Tests requiring a pressure of greater than 10 psi (69 kPa) but less than or equal to 100 psi (689 kPa) shall
utilize a testing gauge having increments of 1 psi (6.9 kPa) or less.

3. Tests requiring a pressure of greater than 100 psi (689 kPa) shall utilize a testing gauge having increments of
2 psi (14 kPa) or less.

312.1.2 Witnessing tests. Tests in accordance with this code shall be witnessed by department plumbing inspec-
tors or approved agencies. The department shall prescribe qualifications for individuals who are authorized to
witness such tests on behalf of approved agencies, including but not limited to the requirement that such individ-
uals shall be licensed master plumbers or registered design professionals with not less than 5 years experience in
the inspection and testing of piping systems. Such tests may be conducted without any inspection or tests wit-
nessed by the department, provided that verified statements and supporting inspectorial and test reports are filed
with the department within two working days of such tests.

312.2 Drainage and vent water test. A water test shall be applied to the drainage system either in its entirety or in
sections. If applied to the entire system, all openings in the piping shall be tightly closed, except the highest opening,
and the system shall be filled with water to the point of overflow. If the system is tested in sections, each opening shall
be tightly plugged except the highest openings of the section under test, and each section shall be filled with water,
but no section shall be tested with less than a 10-foot (3048 mm) head of water. In testing successive sections, at least
the upper 10 feet (3048 mm) of the next preceding section shall be tested so that no joint or pipe in the building, except
the uppermost 10 feet (3048 mm) of the system, shall have been submitted to a test of less than a 10-foot (3048 mm)
head of water. This pressure shall be held for not less than 15 minutes, The system shall then be tight at all points.

312.3 Drainage and vent air test. Plastic piping shall not be tested using air. An air test shall be made by forcing air
into the system until there is a uniform gauge of 5 psi (34.5 kPa). This pressure shall be held for a test period of not
less than 15 minutes. Any adjustments to the test pressure required because of changes in ambient temperatures or the
seating of gaskets shall be made prior to the beginning of the test period.

312.4 Drainage and vent final inspection. The final inspection of the completed drainage and vent systems shall be
visual and in sufficient detail to determine compliance with the provisions of this code. Where a smoke test is utilized,
it shall be made by filling all traps with water and then introducing into the entire system a pungent, thick smoke
produced by one or more smoke machines. When the smoke appears at stack openings on the roof, the stack openings
