ADMINISTRATION

x

such department (Department of Environmental Protection “house/site connection proposal application”
or other form as specified in the rules of such department); and

. On-site disposal. A proposal for the design and construction of a system for the on-site disposal of sewage

conforming to the provisions of this code and other applicable laws and rules including but not limited to
minimum required distances from lot lines or structures and subsoil conditions. Construction documents
for such system shall be subject to the approval of the department.

107.6.2 Stormwater. Applications for construction document approval shall include submittal documents relating
to the availability and feasibility of a public combined or storm sewer or other approved method for stormwater
discharge in accordance with Sections 107.6.2.1 and 107.6.2.2 for the following types of applications:

1. New buildings;

2. Alterations of buildings proposing horizontal building enlargement; and/or

3. Alterations that increase impervious surfaces on the tax lot.

Exceptions:

1. Applications for construction document approval for the alteration of an existing one- or two-family
dwelling need not include such submittal documents, where the footprint of a proposed horizontal
building enlargement and any proposed increase in impervious surfaces combined is less than or equal
to 200 square feet (19 m2). Construction documents shall include the amount of proposed increase in
impervious area.

1.1. This exception shall not apply if the _ horizontal building enlargement and increase in impervious
surface related to the current application for construction document approval and any other en-
largement or increase in impervious surface made on the same tax lot after July 1, 2008 together
exceed 200 square feet (19 m2).

i

. Applications for construction document approval for the alteration of a building need not include such
submittal documents, where the increase in area of the footprint resulting from a proposed horizontal
building enlargement and any proposed increase in impervious surfaces on a lot combined is less than
or equal to 1,000 square feet (93 m7), and on-site disposal of stormwater conforming to the provisions
of the applicable laws and rules as determined by the department is proposed for such enlargement
and/or increase in impervious surface. Construction documents shall include the amount of proposed
increase in impervious area.

2.1. This exception shall not apply where on-site disposal cannot be designed to conform to the provi-
sions of the applicable laws and rules including but not limited to minimum required distances
from lot lines or structures or subsoil conditions as determined by the department.

2.2. This exception shall not apply if the horizontal building enlargement and increase in impervious
surface related to the current application for construction document approval and all other enlarge-
ments or increases in impervious surface made on the same tax lot after July 1, 2008 together
exceed 1,000 square feet (93 m?).

107.6.2.1 Connection feasible and available. Where a public combined or storm sewer availability is certified
by the Department of Environmental Protection or certified by an applicant in accordance with rules of such
department and connection thereto is feasible, applicants shall submit:

1.

x

Department of Environmental Protection certification of availability and feasibility. A sewer certi-
fication issued by the Department of Environmental Protection that a public storm or combined sewer is
available and connection thereto is feasible. Applications for such certification shall be made to the De-
partment of Environmental Protection on forms specified by such department (Department of Environ-
mental Protection “house/site connection proposal application” or other form as specified in the rules of
such department) and shall be reviewed and approved by such department in accordance with the rules of
such department. Such certification may be conditioned by such department on part or all of the storm-
water runoff to be disposed of through an on-site detention or retention system, or by use of alternative
disposal methods including but not limited to ditches, swales or watercourses; or

. Applicant certification of availability and feasibility. A certification submitted by the applicant to the

Department of Environmental Protection in accordance with the rules of such department that a public
