GENERAL REGULATIONS

such as magnetic-particle, radiographic, ultrasonic, etc., shall not be required unless specifically listed herein or in the
engineering design.

312.11.1 Welder’s qualifications. Welders installing domestic water piping within buildings at any pressure shall
comply with the following:

1. Welders shall be qualified for all pipe sizes, wall thicknesses and all positions in accordance with the ASME
Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section IX. Requalification of a welder is required should the welder fail
to maintain welder’s continuity every 6 months. The licensed master plumber employing the welder shall
maintain a welder continuity log and the log shall be made available to the department upon request.

2. Welder qualification testing shall be performed by an approved agency and the inspector witnessing the test
shall be an authorized AWS Certified Welding Inspector.

3. Copies of the certified welder qualification reports shall be maintained by both the approved agency and the
licensed master plumber employing the welder for at least six years and shall be made available to the de-
partment upon request.

SECTION PC 313
EQUIPMENT EFFICIENCIES

313.1 General. Equipment efficiencies shall be in accordance with the New York City Energy Conservation Code.

SECTION PC 314
CONDENSATE DISPOSAL

314.1 Fuel-burning appliances, Liquid combustion by-products of condensing appliances shall be collected and dis-
charged to an approved plumbing fixture or disposal area in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions. Con-
densate piping shall be of approved corrosion-resistant material in accordance with Section 803 and shall not be
smaller than the drain connection on the appliance. Such piping shall maintain a minimum horizontal slope in the
direction of discharge of not less than one-eighth unit vertical in 12 units horizontal (1-percent slope).

314.1.1 Condensate disposal. Condensate from all fuel-burning appliances and associated flues shall be neutral-
ized to a pH of at least 6 and no more than 8 prior to disposal to a sanitary system.

314.2 Evaporators and cooling coils. Condensate drain systems shall be provided for equipment and appliances
containing evaporators or cooling coils. Condensate drain systems shall be designed, constructed and installed in
accordance with Sections 314.2.1 through 314.2.5.

Exception: Evaporators and cooling coils that are designed to operate in sensible cooling only and not support
condensation shall not be required to meet the requirements of this section.

314.2.1 Condensate disposal. Condensate from all cooling coils and evaporators shall be conveyed from the drain
pan outlet to an approved place of disposal. Such piping shall maintain a minimum horizontal slope in the direction
of discharge of not less than one-eighth unit vertical in 12 units horizontal (1-percent slope). Condensate shall not
discharge into a street, alley or other areas so as to cause a nuisance.

$+ 314.2.2 Drain pipe materials and sizes. Components of the condensate disposal system shall be cast iron,
galvanized steel, copper, cross-linked polyethylene, polyethylene, ABS, CPVC, or PVC pipe or tubing. Polypro-
pylene tubing may be used in lengths that do not exceed 12 inches (304.8 mm) for an individual drain application.
Components shall be selected for the pressure and temperature rating of the installation. Joints and connections
shall be made in accordance with the applicable provisions of Chapter 7 relative to the material type. Condensate
waste and drain line size shall be not less than /s-inch (19.1 mm) internal diameter and shall not decrease in size
from the drain pan connection to the place of condensate disposal. Where the drain pipes from more than one unit
are manifolded together for condensate drainage, the pipe or tubing shall be sized in accordance with Table 314.2.2.

TABLE 314.2.2
CONDENSATE DRAIN SIZING

MINIMUM CONDENSATE PIPE

EQUIPMENT CAPACITY DIAMETER
