GENERAL REGULATIONS

308.6.1 No-hub type cast iron soil pipe, fittings, and couplings. Installation of sway bracing for no-hub cast iron
soil pipe, fittings, and couplings shall comply with CISPI 310.

308.7 Anchorage. Anchorage shall be provided to restrain drainage piping from axial movement.

308.7.1 Location. For pipe sizes greater than 4 inches (102 mm), restraints shall be provided for drain pipes at all
changes in direction and at all changes in diameter greater than two pipe sizes. Braces, blocks, rodding and other
suitable methods as specified by the coupling manufacturer shall be utilized.

308.8 Expansion joint fittings. Expansion joint fittings shall be used only where necessary to provide for expansion
and contraction of the pipes. Expansion joint fittings shall be of the typical material suitable for use with the type of
piping in which such fittings are installed.

SECTION PC 309

FLOOD HAZARD RESISTANCE
309.1 General. Plumbing systems and equipment in structures erected in flood hazard areas shall be constructed in
accordance with the requirements of this section and Appendix G of the New York City Building Code.

309.2 Flood hazard. For structures located in flood hazard areas, the following systems and equipment shall be lo-
cated and installed as required by Appendix G of the New York City Building Code:

. Water service pipes.

2. Pump seals in individual water supply systems where the pump is located below the design flood elevation.

we

. Covers on potable water wells shall be sealed, except where the top of the casing well or pipe sleeve is elevated
to not less than 1 foot (305 mm) above the design flood elevation.

4. Sanitary drainage piping.

5. Storm drainage piping.

6. Manhole covers shall be sealed, except where elevated to or above the design flood elevation.
7. Other plumbing fixtures, faucets, fixture fittings, piping systems and equipment.

8. Water heaters.

9. Vents and vent systems.

Exception: In accordance with Appendix G of the New York City Building Code, the above systems are permitted
to be located below the design flood elevation provided that the systems are designed and installed to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within their components and the systems are constructed to resist hydrostatic
and hydrodynamic loads and stresses, including the effects of buoyancy, during the occurrence of flooding to the
design flood elevation.

309.3 Coastal high-hazard areas and coastal A zones. Structures located in coastal high-hazard areas and coastal A.
zones shall meet the requirements of Section 309.2. The plumbing systems, pipes and fixtures shall not be mounted
on or penetrate through walls intended to break away under flood loads.

SECTION PC 310
WASHROOM AND TOILET ROOM REQUIREMENTS

310.1 Light and ventilation. Washrooms and toilet rooms shall be illuminated and ventilated in accordance with the
New York City Building Code and New York City Mechanical Code.

310.2 Location of fixtures and compartments. The location of plumbing fixtures and the requirements for compart-
ments and partitions shall be in accordance with Section 405.
310.3 Interior finish. Interior finish surfaces of toilet rooms shall comply with the New York City Building Code.

SECTION PC 311
TOILET FACILITIES FOR WORKERS:
311.1 General. Toilet facilities shall be provided for construction workers and such facilities shall be maintained in a
sanitary condition. Construction worker toilet facilities of the nonsewer type shall conform to ANSI Z4.3.
