ADMINISTRATION

storm or combined sewer is available and connection thereto is feasible, in such cases where the availa-
bility and feasibility of connection to a public storm or combined sewer are allowed to be certified by the
applicant pursuant to such rules. Such certification shall be on forms specified by such department (De-
partment of Environmental Protection “house/site connection proposal application” or other form as spec-
ified in the rules of such department).

107.6.2.2 Connection not feasible or not available. Where a public combined or storm sewer is not available,
or where connection thereto is not feasible, applicants shall submit:

1. Department of Environmental Protection or applicant certification of unavailability or non-feasi-
bility. (i) Certification issued by the Department of Environmental Protection that a public storm or com-
bined sewer is not available or that connection thereto is not feasible. Such certification shall be on forms
specified by such department (Department of Environmental Protection “house/site connection proposal
application” or other form as specified in the rules of such department); or (ii) Certification submitted by
the applicant to the Department of Environmental Protection that a public storm or combined sewer is not
available or that connection thereto is not feasible, in such cases where the availability and feasibility of
connection to a public storm or combined sewer are allowed to be certified by the applicant pursuant to
tules of such department. Certification shall be on forms specified by such department (Department of
Environmental Protection “house/site connection proposal application” or other form as specified in the
tules of such department); and

x

. On-site disposal. A proposal for the design and construction of a system for the on-site disposal of storm-
water conforming to the provisions of this code and other applicable laws and rules including but not
limited to minimum required distances from lot lines or structures and subsoil conditions. Construction
documents for such system shall be subject to the approval of the department.

107.6.3 Post-construction stormwater management facilities. A post-construction stormwater management fa-

cility that is constructed as a part of a covered development project located within the MS4 area, shall comply with

the rules of the Department of Environmental Protection and with this code.

107.7 Private sewers. If private sewers are to be constructed pursuant to subdivision b of Section 1403 of the New
York City Charter, a copy of the sewer plan shall be submitted.

107.8 Private sewage treatment plant. If a private sewage treatment plant is to be constructed, a copy of plans
approved by the Department of Health and Mental Hygiene and the Department of Environmental Protection shall
be submitted.

{1107.9 Private stormwater or sewage disposal system. If a private stormwater or sewage disposal system is to
be installed, a site and subsoil evaluation indicating that the site and subsoil conditions comply with the applicable
laws and rules shall be submitted in accordance with the provisions of Section 1705.27 of the New York City Build-
ing Code.

107.10 Energy efficiency. Construction documents shall include compliance documentation as required by the New
York City Energy Conservation Code.

$1107.11 Retention of construction and submittal documents. Refer to Section 28-104.12 of the Administrative
Code.

SECTION PC 108
INSPECTIONS AND TESTING

108.1 General. Except as otherwise specified, inspections required by this code or by the department during the
progress of work may be performed on behalf of the owner by approved agencies or, if applicable, by special
inspectors. However, in the interest of public safety, the commissioner may direct that any of such inspections be
performed by the department. All inspections shall be performed at the sole cost and expense of the owner. Refer
to Article 116 of Chapter 1 of Title 28 of the Administrative Code for additional provisions relating to inspections.

108.2 Required inspections and testing. In addition to any inspections otherwise required by this code or applicable
rules, the holder of the permit shall be responsible for the scheduling of the following required inspections:
