GENERAL REGULATIONS

305.8 Breakage. Pipes passing through or under walls shall be protected from breakage.

305.9 Wind resistance. Equipment, appliances and supports that are exposed to wind shall be designed and installed
to resist the wind pressures determined in accordance with the New York City Building Code.
SECTION PC 306
TRENCHING, EXCAVATION AND BACKFILL

306.1 Support of piping. Buried piping shall be supported throughout its entire length.

306.2 Trenching and bedding. Where trenches are excavated such that the bottom of the trench forms the bed for the
pipe, solid and continuous load-bearing support shall be provided between joints. Bell holes, hub holes and coupling
holes shall be provided at points where the pipe is joined. Such pipe shall not be supported on blocks to grade. In
instances where the materials manufacturer’s installation instructions are more restrictive than those prescribed by the
code, the material shall be installed in accordance with the more restrictive requirement.

306.2.1 Overexcavation. Where trenches are excavated below the installation level of the pipe such that the bottom
of the trench does not form the bed for the pipe, the trench shall be backfilled to the installation level of the bottom
of the pipe with sand or fine gravel placed in layers not greater than 6 inches (152 mm) in depth and such backfill
shall be compacted after each placement.

306.2.2 Rock removal. Where rock is encountered in trenching, the rock shall be removed to not less than 3 inches
(76 mm) below the installation level of the bottom of the pipe, and the trench shall be backfilled to the installation
level of the bottom of the pipe with sand tamped in place so as to provide uniform load-bearing support for the pipe
between joints. The pipe, including the joints, shall not rest on rock at any point.

306.2.3 Soft load-bearing materials. If soft materials of poor load-bearing quality are found at the bottom of the
trench, pipe shall be hung from slab above.

306.3 Backfilling. Material used under and beside pipes shall be clean backfill, free of discarded construction material
and debris. Loose earth free from rocks, broken concrete and frozen chunks shall be placed in the trench in 6-inch
(152 mm) layers and tamped in place until the crown of the pipe is covered by 12 inches (305 mm) of tamped earth.
The backfill under and beside the pipe shall be compacted for pipe support. Backfill shall be brought up evenly on
both sides of the pipe so that the pipe remains aligned. In instances where the manufacturer’s installation instructions
for materials are more restrictive than those prescribed by the code, the material shall be installed in accordance with
the more restrictive requirement, Backfilling is subject to progress inspection in accordance with Section 108.

306.4 Tunneling. Where pipe is to be installed by tunneling, jacking or a combination of both, the pipe shall be
protected from damage during installation and from subsequent uneven loading. Where earth tunnels are used, ade-
quate supporting structures shall be provided to prevent future settling or caving.
SECTION PC 307
STRUCTURAL SAFETY

307.1 General. In the process of installing or repairing any part of a plumbing and drainage installation, the finished
floors, walls, ceilings, tile work or any other part of the building or premises that must be changed or replaced shall
be left in a safe structural condition in accordance with the requirements of the New York City Building Code.

307.2 Loading, Alterations resulting in the addition of loads to any member, such as appliances and equipment, shall
not be permitted without verification that the members are capable of supporting such additional loading.

307.3 Cutting, notching and boring. The cutting, notching and boring of structural elements shall be in accordance
with the limitations specified in Appendix C.

307.4 Penetrations of floor/ceiling assemblies and fire-resistance-rated assemblies. Penetrations of floor/ceiling
assemblies and assemblies required to have a fire-resistance rating shall be protected in accordance with the New
York City Building Code.

307.5 Trusses. Truss members of any material and components shall not be cut, drilled, notched, spliced or otherwise
altered in any way without written concurrence and approval of a registered design professional.
